Document cluster decommissioning on GCP (#8)
appuio/openshift4-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/destroy/gcp.adoc

It could also be an NS record at another zone.

If the cluster was the only thing within that project, one might opt to just delete the project.

[CAUTION]
====
The project might hold resources which need to remain.
This could be data that was generated by things that was running on the decommissioned cluster.
This could also be stuff not related to the cluster at all.
====

== Remove the cluster from SYN

Use the Lieutenant API of your SYN setup to delete the cluster. See https://wiki.vshn.net/x/ngMBCg#ClusterRegistryinLieutenantSynfectaCluster(synfection)-Delete

.VSHN
****
Delete the cluster at https://control.vshn.net/syn/lieutenantclusters.
****

[NOTE]
====
At the time of this writing, the git operator does not take care of cleaning up when a cluster gets deleted.
For that reason, one must remove the following resources manually:

* The cluster cluster catalog repository.
* The cluster config file in the Tenant object.
* The cluster config file within the Tenants config git repository.

See https://github.com/projectsyn/lieutenant-operator/issues/32.
====

== Remove secrets from vault

[source,bash]
---
TENANT_ID=…
CLUSTER_ID=…

> vault kv list -format=json kv/${TENANT_ID}/${CLUSTER_ID}/ | jq -r '.[]' | xargs -I{} vault kv metadata delete kv/${TENANT_ID}/${CLUSTER_ID}/{}

Reviewer: What's the difference to `vault kv delete`?

Author: `vault kv delete` will mark a revision as deleted. The data is still there. `vault kv metadata delete` will get rid of everything.

We might want to improve on this by placing some retention based auto delete of older/deleted revisions. Up until now, we have to use this to get rid of things and not leave dead data lying around.

---

[CAUTION]
====

> Vault might contain encryption keys for backups or other type of that still existing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault might contain encryption keys for backups or other type of data that's still existing.
```

Do not delete those keys unless you are sure they are absolutely no longer needed.
====

== Other things to remove

The cluster might have been embedded into a bigger setup of monitoring, log aggregation etc.
Look out for things that are no longer required and get rid of them.

.VSHN
****

> In case of VSHN, this are the places to look out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of VSHN, these are the places to look out:
```
